# Introduction to Anomaly Detection
## What is anomaly detection? Why this is important?
Anomaly detection aims to help detect events that are rare or are different from the norm. This is a important area in the financial industry. For example, in consumer banking, anomalies might be credit card fault. In other cases, an anomaly might be something that create a great investment opportunity for investors. 

## What are the applications of anomaly detection? What business problems are you looking to solve?
There are many applications that can be posited as uses of anomaly detection. For example, a financial analyst changes their buy/hold/sell rating on a particular stock following the company's quarterly earnings announcement. When an analyst changes their rating, the event in itself is not as important as knowing the understanding the context. Was this analyst expected to change their rating? Were they simply moving towards the market's expectations? Do markets typically move when this analyst changes their rating? Recasting this problem in the framework of anomaly detection forces us to take the relevant context into account and leads to interpretations that make sense.

### 1.Fraud Detection
The financial services industy and the industies that involve financial transactions are suffering from fraud related losses and damages. Fraud also impacts banks that provide online payments service. So, the problem for industry players is to implement real-time claim assessment and improve the accuracy of fraud detection.


## What are some of the current solutions to these problems?
There are several approaches to anomaly detection which including a wide variety of techniques, including supervised, semi-supervised, and unsupervised methods. Which solution to choose depends on the amount of data and the type of data you have, and the business problem you are facing. For example, if you are trying to detect an anomaly that is expensive to miss, you might invest in systems that have higher recall with human-in-the-loop backup.

### 1.The rule-based approach
Fraudulent activiteis in finance can be detected by looking at evident signals. 
### 2.ML-based fraud detection


## What are some of the challenges? How to remove these roadblocks?
1.The lack if knowledge of the types of peoblems we face in finance

2.

3.

