# Probabilistic and Statistical Models for Outlier Detection
## 1.Introduction
A popular form of statistical modeling in outlier analysis is that of detecting extreme univariate values. In such cases, it is desirable to determine data values at the tails of a univariate distribution along with a corresponding level of statistical significance. 


A popular form of statistical modeling in outlier analysis is that of detecting extreme univariate values. In such cases, it is desirable to determine data values at the tails of a univariate distribution along with a corresponding level of statistical significance. Although extreme univariate values belong to a very specific category of outliers, they have numerous applications. For example, virtually all outlier detection algorithms use numerical scores to measure the anomalousness of data points, and the final step in these algorithms is to determine the extreme values from these scores. The identification of statistically significant extreme values helps in the conversion of outlier scores into binary labels. Some examples of outlier scoring mechanisms, which are used by different classes of algorithms, are as follows:
• In probabilistic modeling, the likelihood fit of a data point to a generative model is the outlier score.
• In proximity-based modeling, the k-nearest neighbor distance, distance to closest clus- ter centroid, or local density value is the outlier score.
• In linear modeling, the residual distance of a data point to a lower-dimensional rep- resentation of the data is the outlier score.

