Proximity-based techniques define a data point as an outlier when its locality (or proximity) is sparsely populated. The proximity of a data point may be defined in a variety of ways, which are subtly different from one another but are similar enough to merit unified treatment within a single chapter. The most common ways of defining proximity for outlier analysis are as follows:

*** Cluster-based: The non-membership of a data point in any of the clusters, its dis- tance from other clusters, the size of the closest cluster, or a combination of these factors are used to quantify the outlier score. The clustering problem has a comple- mentary relationship to the outlier detection problem in which points either belong to clusters or they should be considered outliers.
*** Distance-based: The distance of a data point to its k-nearest neighbor (or other variant) is used in order to define proximity. Data points with large k-nearest neigh- bor distances are defined as outliers. Distance-based algorithms typically perform the analysis at a much more detailed granularity than the other two methods. On the other hand, this greater granularity often comes at a significant computational cost.
*** Density-based: The number of other points within a specified local region (grid region or distance-based region) of a data point, is used in order to define local density. These local density values may be converted into outlier scores. Other kernel-based methods or statistical methods for density estimation may also be used. The major difference between clustering and density-based methods is that clustering methods partition the data points, whereas density-based methods partition the data space.
